docs/roadmap.md, before:

# Roadmap

Here you can find an overview of planned features and improvements for Brahe aligned to releases. This roadmap is subject to change based on user feedback, development priorities, and other factors.

----

## v0.1.0 - Overhaul & Rust Migration

This release completes the migration of the Brahe core library from Python to Rust, and matches capabilities with the previous pure-Python version.
It also contains many new features, improvements to core functionality, and better documentation.

- [x] Complete conversion to Rust core library
- [x] Datasets Module
    - [x] Celestrak
    - [x] Ground Stations
- [x] Trajectories Module
    - [x] Core Traits
    - [x] Static Trajectory
    - [x] Dynamic Trajectory
- [x] Two Line Element Validation & Parsing
- [x] Propagators Module
    - [x] StateProvider
    - [x] OrbitPropagator
    - [x] Keplerian Propagator
    - [x] SGP4 Propagator
- [x] Implement Access Computation
    - [x] Access Constraints
    - [x] Access Properties
    - [x] Parallel Access Computation
- [x] Plotting Module
    - [x] Ground Track Plots
    - [x] State Trajectory Plots
    - [x] 3D Orbit Plots
    - [x] Gabbard Plots
- [x] Documentation
    - [x] Automatically compiled and checked code samples
    - [x] User Guide
    - [x] API Reference
    - [x] Examples
- [x] CI/CD Pipeline
    - [x] Documentation-only fast releases
    - [x] MacOS testing and builds
    - [x] Windows testing and builds
    - [x] Automated latest release deployment
    - [x] Automated wheel builds
- [x] Package Quality
    - [x] Add Code of Conduct
    - [x] Add Contributing Guide
- [x] Implement `Epoch.now()` initialization
- [x] Caching Earth Orientation Parameters (EOP) data providers
- [x] Add consistent package caching strategy for data files

## v0.2.0 - Numerical Integration 

- [x] Additional Integrators
    - [x] Fixed-step Runge-Kutta 4 (RK4)
    - [x] Adaptive-step Runge-Kutta-Fehlberg 4(5) (RKF45)
    - [x] Dormand-Prince 5(4) (DP54)
    - [x] Runge-Kutta-Nyström 12(10) (RKN1210)
- [x] State Transition Matrix (STM) propagation support
- [x] Package Maintenance
    - [x] Add `towncrier` for automated PR-request changelogs
- [ ] Documentation for Numerical Integration Module

## v0.3.0 - Orbital Perturbations

- [ ] Orbital Perturbations
    - [ ] Spherical Harmonic Gravity
    - [ ] Third Body Gravity
    - [ ] Atmospheric Drag
    - [ ] Solar Radiation Pressure
    - [ ] Relativity
    - [ ] Eclipse Models
    - [ ] Low-fidelity planetary ephemerides
    - [ ] High-fidelity planetary ephemerides (JPL DE430)
- [ ] Numerical Orbit Propagation Module
    - [ ] Control Input Support
        - [ ] Impulsive Maneuvers
        - [ ] Continuous Thrust
    - [ ] Event Detection during Propagation
- [ ] Numerical Propagators
    - [ ] User-defined Force Models
    - [ ] Configurable Numerical propagator with default force models
- [ ] Documentation for Orbital Perturbations and Numerical Propagation

----

## v1.0.0 - Stable Release with Foundational Features

- [ ] Stable release with foundational features
- [ ] Align with JOSS paper required release

----

## Planned Features

The following features are planned for future releases beyond v1.0.0. These features are prioritized based on user feedback and development resources. We welcome contributions and suggestions from the community to help shape the roadmap, as well as help with implementation.

- [ ] Have separate script output text files that get embedded into the docs and expanded verbatim
- [ ] Spacetrack Datasets Module
- [ ] Initialize SGPPropagator from GP Elements
- [ ] OEM File Support
    - [ ] Initialize Trajectory from OEM File
    - [ ] Export Trajectory to OEM File
- [ ] SP3 File Support
    - [ ] Initialize Trajectory from SP3 File
    - [ ] Export Trajectory to SP3 File
    - [ ] Export Trajectory to OEM File
- [ ] OMM File Support
    - [ ] Initialize Trajectory from OMM File
    - [ ] Export Trajectory to OMM File
- [ ] Plotting Improvements
    - [ ] Access timeline plots
- [ ] Improved Interpolation Methods for Trajectories
    - [ ] Lagrange Interpolation
    - [ ] Hermite Interpolation
- [ ] Mean Orbital Elements Support
    - [ ] Conversion between Mean and Osculating elements
- [ ] Relative Orbits
    - [x] Relative Orbit Representations
        - [x] RTN Cartesian States
        - [x] Relative Orbital Elements
    - [ ] Cartesian to ROE Conversions
    - [ ] Propagation of relative motion
        - [ ] Hill-Clohessy-Wiltshire (HCW) Equations
    - [ ] Plotting Relative Orbits
        - [ ] RTN 3-panel plot
        - [ ] RTN 3D plot
- [ ] Estimation
    - [ ] Batch Least Squares Estimator
    - [ ] Extended Kalman Filter
    - [ ] Unscented Kalman Filter
    - [ ] Particle Filter
- [ ] Space Weather Data Management
    - [ ] Data provider classes
        - [ ] Static provider
        - [ ] File provider
        - [ ] Caching provider
- [ ] Improved Atmospheric Models
    - [ ] NRLMSISE 2.0 Atmospheric Model Integration
    - [ ] NRLMSISE 2.1 Atmospheric Model Integration
    - [ ] DTM 2020 Atmospheric Model Integration
- [ ] TLE Estimation 
    - [ ] From GPS Observations
    - [ ] From Initial OPM State

----

## Considered, Unplanned Features

The following features have been considered for future releases but are not currently planned. They may be revisited based on user demand and development priorities.

- [ ] Tidal Force Models
    - [ ] Solid Earth Tides
    - [ ] Ocean Tides
- [ ] Albedeo Force Models
- [ ] Probability of Collision Estimation
- [ ] Monte Carlo Simulation Framework
- [ ] Move all rust functions over to generic float types to support f32 and f64
- [ ] Additional Examples and Tutorials
    - [ ] Mission Analysis Examples
    - [ ] Advanced Access Computation Examples
    - [ ] Custom Perturbation Models
- [ ] Attitude dynamics module
- [ ] WASM bindings for web-based applications
- [ ] Julia bindings for Brahe core library
- [ ] Datasets module for Jonathan McDowell's Satellite Catalog

Commit message:

Space Weather Data Management (#73)
# Pull Request

## Description

This PR implements space weather data management and loading in Brahe

## Changelog

### Added
- Add space weather data management and access modeled on Earth
orientation data provider design.
- Add `StaticSpaceWeatherProvider` `FileSpaceWeatherProvider` and
`CachingSpaceWeatherProvider` classes
  - Adds space weather user guide and api reference documentation

docs/roadmap.md, after:

# Roadmap

Here you can find an overview of planned features and improvements for Brahe aligned to releases. This roadmap is subject to change based on user feedback, development priorities, and other factors.


----

## Experimental Features

Some features in Brahe are currently marked as experimental. These features are functional but may undergo changes even in minor releases as we refine their design and implementation. Experimental features are indicated in the documentation with a warning box.

Current experimental features include:

1. Numerical Integration Module
2. Space Weather Module

----

## v0.1.0 - Overhaul & Rust Migration

This release completes the migration of the Brahe core library from Python to Rust, and matches capabilities with the previous pure-Python version.
It also contains many new features, improvements to core functionality, and better documentation.

- [x] Complete conversion to Rust core library
- [x] Datasets Module
    - [x] Celestrak
    - [x] Ground Stations
- [x] Trajectories Module
    - [x] Core Traits
    - [x] Static Trajectory
    - [x] Dynamic Trajectory
- [x] Two Line Element Validation & Parsing
- [x] Propagators Module
    - [x] StateProvider
    - [x] OrbitPropagator
    - [x] Keplerian Propagator
    - [x] SGP4 Propagator
- [x] Implement Access Computation
    - [x] Access Constraints
    - [x] Access Properties
    - [x] Parallel Access Computation
- [x] Plotting Module
    - [x] Ground Track Plots
    - [x] State Trajectory Plots
    - [x] 3D Orbit Plots
    - [x] Gabbard Plots
- [x] Documentation
    - [x] Automatically compiled and checked code samples
    - [x] User Guide
    - [x] API Reference
    - [x] Examples
- [x] CI/CD Pipeline
    - [x] Documentation-only fast releases
    - [x] MacOS testing and builds
    - [x] Windows testing and builds
    - [x] Automated latest release deployment
    - [x] Automated wheel builds
- [x] Package Quality
    - [x] Add Code of Conduct
    - [x] Add Contributing Guide
- [x] Implement `Epoch.now()` initialization
- [x] Caching Earth Orientation Parameters (EOP) data providers
- [x] Add consistent package caching strategy for data files

## v0.2.0 - Numerical Integration 

- [x] Additional Integrators
    - [x] Fixed-step Runge-Kutta 4 (RK4)
    - [x] Adaptive-step Runge-Kutta-Fehlberg 4(5) (RKF45)
    - [x] Dormand-Prince 5(4) (DP54)
    - [x] Runge-Kutta-Nyström 12(10) (RKN1210)
- [x] State Transition Matrix (STM) propagation support
- [x] Package Maintenance
    - [x] Add `towncrier` for automated PR-request changelogs
- [ ] Documentation for Numerical Integration Module

## v0.3.0 - Orbital Perturbations

- [ ] Orbital Perturbations
    - [ ] Spherical Harmonic Gravity
    - [ ] Third Body Gravity
    - [ ] Atmospheric Drag
    - [ ] Solar Radiation Pressure
    - [ ] Relativity
    - [ ] Eclipse Models
    - [ ] Low-fidelity planetary ephemerides
    - [ ] High-fidelity planetary ephemerides (JPL DE430)
- [ ] Numerical Orbit Propagation Module
    - [ ] Control Input Support
        - [ ] Impulsive Maneuvers
        - [ ] Continuous Thrust
    - [ ] Event Detection during Propagation
- [ ] Numerical Propagators
    - [ ] User-defined Force Models
    - [ ] Configurable Numerical propagator with default force models
- [ ] Documentation for Orbital Perturbations and Numerical Propagation

----

## v1.0.0 - Stable Release with Foundational Features

- [ ] Stable release with foundational features
- [ ] Align with JOSS paper required release

----

## Planned Features

The following features are planned for future releases beyond v1.0.0. These features are prioritized based on user feedback and development resources. We welcome contributions and suggestions from the community to help shape the roadmap, as well as help with implementation.

- [ ] Have separate script output text files that get embedded into the docs and expanded verbatim
- [ ] Spacetrack Datasets Module
- [ ] Initialize SGPPropagator from GP Elements
- [ ] OEM File Support
    - [ ] Initialize Trajectory from OEM File
    - [ ] Export Trajectory to OEM File
- [ ] SP3 File Support
    - [ ] Initialize Trajectory from SP3 File
    - [ ] Export Trajectory to SP3 File
    - [ ] Export Trajectory to OEM File
- [ ] OMM File Support
    - [ ] Initialize Trajectory from OMM File
    - [ ] Export Trajectory to OMM File
- [ ] Plotting Improvements
    - [ ] Access timeline plots
- [ ] Improved Interpolation Methods for Trajectories
    - [ ] Lagrange Interpolation
    - [ ] Hermite Interpolation
- [ ] Mean Orbital Elements Support
    - [ ] Conversion between Mean and Osculating elements
- [ ] Relative Orbits
    - [x] Relative Orbit Representations
        - [x] RTN Cartesian States
        - [x] Relative Orbital Elements
    - [ ] Cartesian to ROE Conversions
    - [ ] Propagation of relative motion
        - [ ] Hill-Clohessy-Wiltshire (HCW) Equations
    - [ ] Plotting Relative Orbits
        - [ ] RTN 3-panel plot
        - [ ] RTN 3D plot
- [ ] Estimation
    - [ ] Batch Least Squares Estimator
    - [ ] Extended Kalman Filter
    - [ ] Unscented Kalman Filter
    - [ ] Particle Filter
- [x] Space Weather Data Management
    - [x] Data provider classes
        - [x] Static provider
        - [x] File provider
        - [x] Caching provider
- [ ] Improved Atmospheric Models
    - [ ] NRLMSISE 2.0 Atmospheric Model Integration
    - [ ] NRLMSISE 2.1 Atmospheric Model Integration
    - [ ] DTM 2020 Atmospheric Model Integration
- [ ] TLE Estimation 
    - [ ] From GPS Observations
    - [ ] From Initial OPM State

----

## Considered, Unplanned Features

The following features have been considered for future releases but are not currently planned. They may be revisited based on user demand and development priorities.

- [ ] Tidal Force Models
    - [ ] Solid Earth Tides
    - [ ] Ocean Tides
- [ ] Albedeo Force Models
- [ ] Probability of Collision Estimation
- [ ] Monte Carlo Simulation Framework
- [ ] Move all rust functions over to generic float types to support f32 and f64
- [ ] Additional Examples and Tutorials
    - [ ] Mission Analysis Examples
    - [ ] Advanced Access Computation Examples
    - [ ] Custom Perturbation Models
- [ ] Attitude dynamics module
- [ ] WASM bindings for web-based applications
- [ ] Julia bindings for Brahe core library
- [ ] Datasets module for Jonathan McDowell's Satellite Catalog
